first draft of alloy overview rewrite (#2031)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/_index.md

  width: 110
  height: 110
  description: >-
    Grafana Alloy is a vendor-neutral distribution of the OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. With Alloy, you can instrument your app or infrastrastructure to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the data source of your choice. 
cards:
  title_class: pt-0 lh-1
  items:
    - title: Install Alloy

>       href: ./get-started/install/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./set-up/install/
```

      description: Learn how to install and uninstall Alloy on Docker, Kubernetes, Linux, macOS, or Windows.
    - title: Run Alloy

>       href: ./get-started/run/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./set-up/run/
```

      description: Learn how to start, restart, and stop Alloy after you have installed it.
    - title: Configure Alloy

>       href: ./tasks/configure/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./configure/
```

      description: Learn how to configure Alloy on Kubernetes, Linux, macOS, or Windows.
    - title: Migrate to Alloy

>       href: ./tasks/migrate/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./migrate/
```

      description: Learn how to migrate to Alloy from Grafana Agent Operator, Prometheus, Promtail, Grafana Agent Static, or Grafana Agent Flow.
    - title: Collect OpenTelemetry data

>       href: ./tasks/collect-opentelemetry-data/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./collect-opentelemetry-data/
```

      description: You can configure Alloy to collect OpenTelemetry-compatible data and forward it to any OpenTelemetry-compatible endpoint. Learn how to configure OpenTelemetry data delivery, configure batching, and receive OpenTelemetry data over OTLP.
    - title: Collect and forward Prometheus metrics

>       href: ./tasks/collect-prometheus-metrics/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./collect-prometheus-metrics/
```

      description: You can configure Alloy to collect Prometheus metrics and forward them to any Prometheus-compatible database. Learn how to configure metrics delivery and collect metrics from Kubernetes Pods.
    - title: Concepts

>       href: ./concepts/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./get-started/
```

  width: 110
  height: 110
  description: >-

>     Grafana Alloy is a vendor-neutral distribution of the OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. With Alloy, you can instrument your application or infrastructure to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the observability backend of your choice.

Author: Thank you for catching this @ptodev ! 

What role does Alloy play in data collection for applications?

Are Prometheus or OTel used to instrument an app and the data is sent to Alloy for processing and forwarding?

If that is the case, why wouldn't they just use Prometheus or OTel to handle all of that?

cards: 
  title_class: pt-0 lh-1
  items:
    - title: Introduction
      href:  ./introduction/
      description: Discover more about the key features and benefits of Alloy.
    - title: Concepts
      href: ./get-started/

>       description: Learn about components, modules, clustering, and the Alloy configuration syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Learn about Grafana Alloy.
```

We could keep it REALLY simple.

  width: 110
  height: 110
  description: >-

>     Grafana Alloy is a vendor-neutral distribution of the OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. With Alloy, you can instrument your app or infrastrastructure to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the data source of your choice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Grafana Alloy is a vendor-neutral distribution of the OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. With Alloy, you can instrument your application or infrastructure to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the data source of your choice. 
```

Do you forward data to a data source? or a receiver?

      href: ./configure/
      description: Learn how to configure Alloy on Kubernetes, Linux, macOS, or Windows.
    - title: Migrate to Alloy

>       href: ./migrate/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./set-up/migrate/
```

      description: Learn how to migrate to Alloy from Grafana Agent Operator, Prometheus, Promtail, Grafana Agent Static, or Grafana Agent Flow.
    - title: Collect OpenTelemetry data

>       href: ./collect-opentelemetry-data/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./collect/opentelemetry-data/
```

      description: You can configure Alloy to collect OpenTelemetry-compatible data and forward it to any OpenTelemetry-compatible endpoint. Learn how to configure OpenTelemetry data delivery, configure batching, and receive OpenTelemetry data over OTLP.
    - title: Collect and forward Prometheus metrics

>       href: ./collect-prometheus-metrics/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      href: ./collect/prometheus-metrics/
```

# Overview

> Getting the relevant telemetry data (i.e. metrics, logs, and traces) for analysis is an indispensable part of understanding the health of your system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collecting the relevant metrics, logs, and traces for analysis is an indispensable part of understanding the health of your system. 
```

We shouldn't use i.e. in the docs.

Do we need to use `telemetry data` here?  Is there other telemetry data collected other than metrics, logs and traces?

I feel like we are missing some of the details for things that Alloy can do beyond collecting metrics, logs and traces.  The original text mentions things like alerts, hybrid configurations, being deployed anywhere in the LGTM stack, Grafana Cloud, or other compatible backends/vendors.

Author: Hey @clayton-cornell! 

Thank you for letting me know about using, i.e., in the docs.
I will keep that in mind for the future. 

I've italicized your comments and included my response below. 

_Do we need to use telemetry data here? Is there other telemetry data collected other than metrics, logs, and traces?_

Yes, I strongly recommend that we use the term telemetry data.

We are positioning Alloy as a distribution of the OTel Collector.

The term telemetry data and adding metrics, logs, and traces as examples of telemetry data are commonly used throughout the [OTel documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/). 

Keeping the same language will help the audience associate the collector and Alloy that much easier. 

While there are other telemetry data such as profiles, metrics, logs, and traces are most commonly used for observability. Since some of the first-timers may not know what telemetry data is referring to, I included metrics, logs, and traces for their reference. 

_I feel like we are missing some of the details for things that Alloy can do beyond collecting metrics, logs, and traces. The original text mentions things like alerts, hybrid configurations, being deployed anywhere in the LGTM stack, Grafana Cloud, or other compatible backends/vendors._

While I do see the need to educate the audience about the topics mentioned in the original overview, as a new user, I found these sentences to be distractingly granular, and it didn't help me understand exactly what I need to use Alloy for. 

My recommendation is that we keep the overview page simple and concise about what Alloy is and how to get started first.

Then include a sentence that routes them to an external page that talks about alerts, hybrid configurations, being deployed anywhere in the LGTM stack, Grafana Cloud, or other compatible backends/vendors, in a similar manner, I briefly introduced features of Alloy and included a sentence that reroutes them to the introduction page. 

These topics are indeed important and we should make sure these topics are covered somewhere else in the documentation (perhaps on the same page as the features in the introduction section?) 

What do you think about changing this sentence to: 

Collecting the relevant telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) for analysis is an indispensable part of understanding the health of your system.

Reviewer: Using brackets is also discourage.

An alternative...

```
Collecting the relevant telemetry data, such as metrics, logs, and traces, for analysis is an indispensable part of understanding the health of your system.
```

> Think of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} as a Swiss army knife for collecting, processing, and forwarding telemetry data to the data source of your choosing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is a multifunction tool you can use to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the data receiver of your choosing. 
```

Where do we forward data? I don't think it's a data source.  It's some kind of receiver., right? Either external or to the next step in the pipeline (eg the output of one component can be input for the next component),

Author: My recommendation is to keep this concept as simple as possible and not get into granular detail about how data is forwarded and focus on helping them understand the big picture. 

The phrase sending data to an observability backend is commonly used in open telemetry.
The term forwarding is used in the Alloy documentation. 

What do you think about changing this sentence to:

{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is a multifunction tool you can use to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the observability backend of your choosing.

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} has the following features to help you customize, scale, secure, and troubleshoot your data pipeline.
1. Custom components
1. GitOps compatibility
1. Clustering support
1. Security
1. Debugging utilities

> Check out the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} [Introduction] page for more information on these and other key features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} [Introduction] for more information on these and other key features.
```

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is flexible, and you can easily configure it to fit your needs in on-prem, cloud-only, or a mix of both.

> Getting started with Alloy consists of 3 major steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get started with {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} in just 3 steps:
```

1. Install {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} 
1. Configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} 

> 1. Collect and forward telemetry data to the data source of choice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Collect and forward telemetry data to the data receiver of choice
```

I'm not sure receiver is the best word here...

Author: Collect and forward telemetry data to the observability backend of your choice.

> In addition, you can use Grafana dashboard to visualize the data collected from app or infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, you can use Grafana dashboards to visualize the data collected from your application or infrastructure.
```

> For a quick overview of this process, check out the following tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tutorials give you a quick overview of this process.

```

* [Use Grafana Alloy to send logs to Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/send-logs-to-loki/)

> * [Use Grafana Alloy to send metrics to Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/send-metrics-to-prometheus/)

Author: Hey @clayton-cornell ! I intentionally put those two tutorials there as these go over the steps mentioned above from start to finish. 

What do you think about adding a third bullet point and linking the tutorial page?

* For more tutorials, check out the tutorial page (or something like that?)

# Overview

Collecting the relevant telemetry data, such as metrics, logs, and traces, for analysis is an indispensable part of understanding the health of your system.

> {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is more than just a collector. You can use {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the observability backend of your choosing.

Reviewer: The initial sentence was an attempt to rework some other suggested wording that didn't quite fit.  I agree, it's better to simply drop it altogether.

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} has the following features to help you customize, scale, secure, and troubleshoot your data pipeline.

* Custom components
* GitOps compatibility
* Clustering support
* Security

> * Debugging utilities

Author: @ptodev , agreed.
I was trying to simplify what was on the original page but perhaps it's better to leave it out completely and explain this on another page. What do you think?

> {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is flexible, and you can easily configure it to fit your needs in on-prem, cloud-only, or a mix of both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is flexible, and you can easily configure it to fit your needs in on-premises, cloud, or a mix of on-premises and cloud. .
```

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#on-premises

Collecting the relevant telemetry data, such as metrics, logs, and traces, for analysis is an indispensable part of understanding the health of your system.

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is more than just a collector. You can use {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} to collect, process, and forward telemetry data to the observability backend of your choosing.

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} has the following features to help you customize, scale, secure, and troubleshoot your data pipeline.

* Custom components
* GitOps compatibility
* Clustering support
* Security
* Debugging utilities

{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is flexible, and you can easily configure it to fit your needs in on-prem, cloud-only, or a mix of both.

> 

Author: One thing to add here is a clear call to action, which is for them to install, configure, and collect forward telemetry data. 

We could do that by including the section on getting started in the original draft on the overview page

OR 

include a blurb saying, "Getting started with Alloy consists of 3 major steps.
Click here to get started." Then, link it to a new page with content in the original draft as shown below.

New page: 
Getting started with Alloy consists of 3 major steps:
1. Install {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} 
1. Configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} 
1. Collect and forward telemetry data to the observability backend of your choice.

In addition, you can use the Grafana dashboard to visualize the data collected from the app or infrastructure.

For a quick overview of this process, check out the following tutorials.
* [Use Grafana Alloy to send logs to Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/send-logs-to-loki/)
* [Use Grafana Alloy to send metrics to Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/send-metrics-to-prometheus/)
* For more tutorials, check out the [tutorial page](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/tutorials/)

What do you think?

Reviewer: Some thougths on this:

* I'd really like to keep this landing page as simple as possible... and in-line with the other Grafana product landing pages.
* We should never use `Click here` in any documentation.
* The `3 major steps` part doesn't fit in so well... if we want to dive into this level of detail, then it should be on a child page.
* The landing page should simply introduce the product, not provide steps/instructions.

Author: Agreed. Why don't we leave out the call to action part and include the suggested text to the Get started page?
https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/get-started/
